Hello and welcome back.
In this lecture I want to test your knowledge of the decorative design pattern so I'm providing an opportunity
here for you to complete an assignment.
This is our challenge on the decorator the requirements of this assignment are that you're going to
use the Decorator pattern to add additional functionality to an application that draws various shapes
and so you should be familiar again shapes as a nice example because it has a lot of different types.
So we can use it for you know inheritance and things like that.
So what I want you to do is you'll need to create a component interface.
We know the decorator consist of a component interface an abstract decorator a concrete component and
then those concrete decorators that extend the functionality.
So you need to create all of those and you're required to create a shape interface that will be the
component in this case and you can add a simple Draw method to that shape interface.
You're also required to implement those concrete classes implementing the shape interface.
These are the concrete components.
This is what you want to add additional functionality to the two concrete components for the assignment
or rectangle and circle.
You can implement the draw by just displaying some default string now it doesn't have to be real logic
in this.
You're going to extend this drawer and your decorators so you're required to create an abstract decorator
class name shape decorator that will implement the shape interface.
We'll have the draw method and it will have a shape object as its instance variable because that's all
the Decorator pattern works you're required to create some concrete decorator classes.
You can do anything you really why here.
I suggest maybe adding some colors.
So red shape decorator green Chapstick decorator but you need to add additional functionality such as
setting a color or a border or changing style.
You can come up with any real additional functionality that you feel fit that we could add something
to the drawing capability of a shape so it can be anything it doesn't have to be colors on the last
thing you have to do is you have to create a client that uses the decorator to decorate shape objects.
You can add additional functionality to your drawing.
Here's some example output and again this is just examples so it doesn't have to be exactly like this
but I'm demonstrating the additional functionality with the decorator.
I'm drawing a circle with a normal border specifying what the shape is and then have additional functionality
because the draw method in the component classes they're just going to draw a circle.
Nothing else I'm adding additional functionality in my decorators to draw a maybe a red border or a
you know a red rectangle so a red border for a circle or a red border for a rectangle.
That's what I decided.
But again feel free to modify and do whatever you want and your decorator if you can think of additional
functionality that report into drawing a shape.
Good luck.
I'll provide a solution in the next lecture on implementing the decorative design pattern for the shape
concept.
Thank you.